# mistaken_mice
 2020 NMA academy project, mistaken mice group, pod 173 antique cicada

Perceptual systems do not always encode sensory information reliably. Besides the noise that is inherent to physical stimuli, there is variability in neuronal activity that is internally generated by the subject/observer. In this project, we sought to characterize the source of such variability at different neuronal stages, and tried to disentangle it from what is explained by sensory inputs.
Task and aims:
Specifically, we studied mice performing a contrast-discrimination visual task:
Mice were presented with two gratings, one on the left and one on the right visual field, and had to choose the one with the higher contrast by turning a wheel. (If they turned the wheel to the correct side, they received a reward). In most trials, the two gratings had indeed different contrasts, and we refer to those as ?fair? trials. In another subset of trials, the two gratings had the same contrast, and were therefore ?unfair? (i.e. the mice had no cue for solving the task, and where rewarded randomly). During the task, the activity from hundreds of neurons across several areas was recorded with chronically implanted Neuropixels.
In order to study the contribution of specific brain areas to perceptual decisions, we performed a decoding analysis, trying to predict the choice of the mouse from the ongoing neuronal activity. First, we analyzed all trials, ?fair? and ?unfair?, and then we attempted to extend our analysis only to ?unfair? trials, so to isolate the effects of internally generated activity.

Methods:
For each experimental session, starting from the spike time-series of individual neurons, we performed Principal Component Analysis to obtain the dimensions that explained most of the variance in the neuronal activity, as well as their weight. In order to perform PCA, we first z-scored the spiking data across each trial and isolated and averaged activity happening one second after stimulus presentation. After PCA, we preserved the lowest number of components that could explain 50% of the variance in the dataset as a de-noising step. These components were used as input features for a logistic GLM that had the choice of the mouse in a given trial as output variable. After fitting the model and estimating its accuracy through leave-one-out cross-validation, we quantified the contribution of each individual neuron to the prediction of the mice?s decisions. In order to do so, we projected the regression coefficients corresponding to the principal components back into the neurons space .

